# Entry 1 - Diving In and Out
##### Nov. 08, 2021

#####      With the freedom project, I had my mind set to a goal that I already had planned out somewhat in my head. It was to take something written in markdown and turn it into this beautiful website that people can use. The website itself would be a guide about a Minecraft server I help to moderate for. With the consent of the developers, that we finally could kickstart this dream. To make this dream a reality though was a different story. I looked into what was my first pick, Jekyll. Now Jekyll can accomplish this task, but it also needs to run on the coding language, Ruby. The Jekyll website [(click here to access it)](https://jekyllrb.com/) has their quickstart using a ruby gem. A ruby gem, a package manager for Ruby, is used to start-up and set up the Jekyll website builder. Looking at it even now, the website for the installation [(here)](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/) has multiple disclaimers saying that multiple parts may fail because of the newer Ruby builds.  Having quite a bit of confusion, I went looking for a different tool. 
#####    This is when Hugo comes in. Hugo [(https://gohugo.io/)](https://gohugo.io/)  does the same thing as Jekyll, but works faster and is extremely versatile, but doesn’t have plug-in support. Hugo is another markdown to HTML/CSS & Javascript editor and converter. Both of these programs are supported by GitHub and have active and lively communities. Both have around the same functionality and work in similar ways, so why would I switch? Switching helped me really bring the idea to life because it allowed me to download less content and wait less for a better and almost exact result. 
#####     Without the skill of Googling up more information, I would have never made the switch. The website [linked here](https://forestry.io/blog/hugo-and-jekyll-compared/) Jekyll has many years of experience and has a lower learning curve with trying to learn the language of the tool, but there is a just one major problem. Websites built with Jekyll take a very long time to compile. Jekyll servers have to go through not only their code but Ruby as well. Ruby is known for not having the greatest runtime and could force a page to keep refreshing for almost up to thirty minutes if we have multiple pages on my wiki. Hugo doesn't have these problems but it does have a few of its own. Hugo has a higher learning curve for beginners, meaning it can be very discouraging when first trying to learn Hugo. Hugo also does not support any plugins. While GitHub does support both tools and allows them to exist on their websites and look nice, Jekyll has been around for a lot longer and can incorporate the usage of plugins to make the website even more animated and lively. While the two struggles make Hugo seem like it is not worth the headache it could cause for beginners, Hugo pages compile very quickly. Multiple websites confirm that Hugo is able to compile thousands of pages in under a second, making it a much stronger program to use if we have multiples of pages.
##### Another skill I used when deciding to use Hugo is consideration. Consideration, the idea that using careful thoughts and actions to benefit both yourself and others, made me consider and choose to learn Hugo, even with all the potential struggles. Having something dynamic while also running fast makes sure that people trying to look up information can do so quickly and in the short timeframe the players would have. Considering that Jekyll takes quite a bit to compile and is also static meant it wouldn't be the best choice for me. With all of that in mind, I finally landed on Hugo.
##### Looking towards the future, by the next blog entry I want two items on my list done. I want to start planning and learning how to make my own design theme for the website and collecting and applying the information from the discord server where the Minecraft server lives and the developer's builds of his own server plugins to bring the website to life. These two things, along with learning Hugo and continuing to research how I can continue applying Hugo will make my idea into a reality. 


[Next](entry02.md)

[Home](../README.md)
